Please open up your complete
personal finance dashboard Excel file.
And please click on exercise number 14
called Budget Planning
and you can also access this exercise
by clicking on the gray button called Budget.
And similar to what we did
with our income statement earlier,
remember that exercise?
We're gonna create a monthly budget
and I made each category here equal
to your income statement categories
in case you change them
as I want to save you time
in creating a budget.
So, for this exercise number 14,
please enter in what you expect to spend
on a monthly basis for all categories.
Now, you'll notice here that I made
all of these equal to what you already entered in
on the tab called Exercise Two and Three, Income Statement,
just in case you change the tab names there
or the labels there.
I wanna make sure that it's intuitive for you here
and if you want to overwrite you can always just type
over top these.
And so, just enter in on a monthly basis,
so make sure divide by 12 if you have annual numbers
for each monthly budget
and you can change these labels
to be January, February, whatever it is right now for you
and then at the end of that month
and just go all the way down
through all of these categories here
so that you've got X expenses as well as revenue
and then after that month is over,
calculate here what the actual number was
so you can figure out whether or not you are on track
with each one of your revenue and expense line items
especially expense line items
and taxes are kind of tough to play around with
and revenue's kind of tough to change as well
unless you want to add additional revenue streams
like teach Udemy or do stuff on fiverr.com
or drive a taxi or Uber or whatever it is.
So, I would probably spend more time if I were you
on these categories here
from car monthly expenses and below
and if you want just a refresher
on how to save money on some of these areas,
you can always go back to the course in section four
and just watch those lectures again
for each one of those categories
or you can go back to your income statement here
and then scroll over and watch
these lessons here by just clicking on them
and they're the same thing you see
in section four in the course anyway.
Let me go back to your budget.
Okay, and if you have any questions with this,
again please let me know
and at the end of each month
when you're kind of grading yourself
or checking to see how you did
relative to your budget,
you can always enter in notes here
and what I used to do when I was an undergrad
was for each course I took
at the beginning of the semester
I thought of myself as getting 100%
which never obviously occurred
towards the end of the semester
and then after I took each test
or handed in each assignment,
if I didn't get perfect
which was most of the time,
I would deduct a certain amount,
so let's say that my midterm
which was worth half my grade, I got 90%
and so, that's half my grade
which is 50% which is 45,
so I would deduct five percent
all the way down until I knew my final grade
and I know it sounds a little bit different
but think of a budget the same way,
think of yourself as okay, I'll only allow myself
to spend this much on parking
or this much on public transportation
and what you can do throughout the month
if you want to is you can deduct,
so let's say you budget parking of 20 bucks.
Then what you can do throughout the month
is you can always do equals that,
so you spent five bucks today
and then you know you have 15 bucks left to spend.
That sort of thing, if that works for you,
otherwise just ignore that, please, thanks.
Okay, and then what you do after you've finished month one,
is you do the exact same thing for month two,
month three, rinse, lather, repeat
all the up until month 12 or whatever
might be for you and you can always add
additional columns here, just copy and paste
and if you make a mistake with this spreadsheet,
you can always re-download it from the course
or you can even just right click on this budget plan here
and just make a duplicate one
so you can just kind of create
another budget for future years
or future time periods
and as always, if you have any questions at all,
please let me know.
Thanks.